- [Instructor] Now let's take a look
at the ThreadFactory API demo.
The steps are ready here, the first one
is you to create a custom class,
which implements the ThreadFactory interface.
So let's head back to the IDE,
and I want to create a totally different package
for any kind of custom implementations that I want
for my application.
Okay, and under this package I'll create a class,
and I will say CustomThreadFactory.
Okay, and this should basically implement the
ThreadFactory interface. Okay?
Next is you to provide custom logic
to decide the names or priorities.
So the custom logic will be provided by the
implementation of that abstract method.
Okay. Let's get rid of the default implementation;
we don't want that.
And inside this, let's create an instance of Thread.
And choose the construct to which sticks a Runnable argument
so this task will be passed to it.
And then, now is the chance to set your own name
custom names, or maybe your own priorities,
or even set the Daemon Thread status.
So you can take the instance and call any of these methods
for example setDaemon, setName, setPriority,
and write your own custom logic to basically
identify your threads. Okay?
Or maybe Priorities or Daemon status.
So let's go ahead and call the setName method,
and we'll add a very simple logic.
On line number 16 I'm going to say
private static int counter=0, alright?
And to the setName call on line number 22,
I am going to say the name should be like
Custom Thread - + and on that
I am just going to increment that counter.
Once that's done, I'll just return this thread
that I'm creating. Okay.
Next is, once you write the custom logic, now you
going to use the custom ThreadFactory class
to submit any of the previous tasks coded in the project.
Okay? So we have a lot of Runnables that we have
already in place; you can use any one of them
to test out this ThreadFactory implementation.
So let's create a test class here.
And say TestThreadFactory.
Let's grab the main method, and what are we
going to do here?
We are going to first take the ExecutorService object,
using the Executors utility class,
and now, what are we going to do here?
We are going to use that overloaded version of the method.
So let's have a nice here newFixedThreadPool.
I'm going to use this version of the method.
I want three threads, and the threadFactory should be
my threadFactory instance, the custom one that I made.
So I'm going to say new CustomThreadFactory
pass the instance as the second argument.
Okay? So now the pool.
The service object that I'm going to get is going to be
using my ThreadFactory instead of
the default implementation. Okay?
And I'm going to pick up the logging processor task which
is only trying to lock something on the console, right?
Before that let's quickly go to the logging processor,
and yeah, we've already got the sis out where we
have the name of the current thread printed.
That is essential for us because since we have given
custom names, we need to understand what is
the name of the thread that came inside this execution.
Alright? So we have done that.
Let's go ahead and say for a loop of six.
I'm gonna run a loop, maybe six times.
i<6,i++ And I'm gonna say service.submit
And that will be new LoggingProcessor.
Yeah. That's the task I want to submit.
I deliberately am running it for six times,
so that I have six instances of the tasks and
I have three threads. Okay?
So let me see how the threads are going to be now named.
So let's go ahead and run this.
Yeah. You see? So you have thread name
as CustomThread-2, CustomThread-1, CustomThread-3,
so those are the kind of names its been picking up
for all the tasks, and that's essentially happening
because of the basic fact that I'm trying to use the names
from my factory instead of the default one.
Of course you can set up priority and you can also
set the Daemon status but be very careful about it because
we've already discussed: you are to exercise caution
when you are trying to develop multi-threaded applications.
In case of priority, it may not work the way you expect.
Okay? So that's the ThreadFactory API,
and now we have come to an end of the Java
standard edition concurrency utilities. Alright?
That was the last API that we were going to take a look at.
And we essentially took a look at all the
Java standard edition concurrency APIs
for the fact that when we go to Java enterprise edition
concurrency it'll be way better to understand these APIs
because when you talk about enterprise versions
of concurrency they are an extension
to these APIs themselves. Alright?
So we know a lot of things of the
standard edition concurrency, and now let's move on
to the enterprise edition concurrency utilities.